Q. Can I book directly with the hospital?
Yes, you can book appointments and many treatments directly with us. For most procedures, a GP referral is required.
If you are insured, we also recommend that you check with your insurer that you are covered to see your preferred consultant at our hospital.
You can easily book an appointment online with many of our consultants. To find a consultant near you, please click here. For more information, please call 0330 173 8200.

Q. How can I find out more about your consultants?
We are proud to work with expert health professionals who specialize in a wide range of treatments and procedures across the UK. To find a consultant near you, please click here.

Q. How much will a consultation cost?
Consultation fees vary as each consultant sets their own fee.
If your consultant advises that you require additional tests or scans during your initial appointment, these costs will not be included in your initial consultation fee. Your consultant and hospital team will confirm these costs for you at that time.
If you require further information, please call us on 0330 173 8200..

Q. Do I need a referral from my GP?
A GP referral is required for most procedures as this will ensure that you are booked in for the appropriate speciality. There may be some treatments where a referral is not needed. For further information, please give us a call on 0330 173 8200.
Nuffield Health also offers private GP services across the UK. To find your nearest location and for more information about our GP services, please click here.

Q. How soon can I be seen?
We will always do our best to find an appointment at a time that is convenient for you. For most initial appointments, the wait time will vary between a few days and a few weeks.
Many of our consultants list their outpatient clinic days and times on our website and you can also book an appointment online. To find a consultant near you, please click here. You can also call us on 0330 173 8200 to confirm appointment availability.
If you require further treatment, your consultant will discuss the next steps with you.

Q. How much will treatment cost?
Each treatment plan is different. You can take a look at our treatment guide prices before your initial consultation.
We will offer you an all-inclusive procedure price following your initial consultation. For your peace of mind, this covers all of your treatment costs, including aftercare, so that you do not have to worry about unexpected bills.
If you find an alternative private hospital in your local area offering a better price for the same procedure, sold with the same service conditions, we’ll lower our price to equal it. This is our Promise to you.

Q. What options do I have for paying?
There are a few ways you can pay for your treatment: 
1.You can choose to pay for your consultation and treatment yourself.
2.You can spread the cost of your treatment with a personal medical loan through Chrysalis Finance.
3.If you have medical insurance, you will need to liaise closely with your insurance provider throughout your treatment.
We recommend you check your excess with your insurance provider to know the level of coverage they provide you.

Q. Can I have a chaperone with me while I’m being examined or treated?
We understand that you may be worried or nervous about being examined or treated, so we have chaperons who can be with you. If you would like to bring a friend or family member, that is also fine.

Q. I am disabled/require assistance during my visit, who do I need to tell?
Please let our staff know your requirements when you contact us. We are happy to make suitable arrangements before your visit. If you’d like to bring a friend or family member, please feel free to do so.

Q. I want to discuss my medication/medical condition before my treatment, what do I need to do?
You can discuss your medication or medical conditions with your consultant during your initial appointment. Please bring any medications or a list of the medicines that you are on to your consultation.
You can also discuss your concerns with the nurse during your pre-assessment appointment or pre-assessment telephone call before your treatment. Our nurses will ensure that you receive suitable guidance before your treatment. If needed, they will also liaise with your consultant and anaesthetist.

Q. I want to discuss my medication/medical condition before my treatment, what do I need to do?
You can discuss your medication or medical conditions with your consultant during your initial appointment. Please bring any medications or a list of the medicines that you are on to your consultation.
You can also discuss your concerns with the nurse during your pre-assessment appointment or pre-assessment telephone call before your treatment. Our nurses will ensure that you receive suitable guidance before your treatment. If needed, they will also liaise with your consultant and anaesthetist.

Q. I am visually impaired, could you send me letters in large font?
Yes, please let the team know your requirements and we will send you all information in your preferred format.

Q. English is not my first language and I will require an interpreter, what do I need to do?
Please let our team know your requirements and they will provide you with further information. All clinical information must be provided to you accurately so that you can make an informed decision about your treatment.

Q. Can I attend my appointment with my child?
To ensure you get the most out of your appointment, we recommend that you do not bring young children with you. You may be required to have tests completed and therefore the environment may not be suitable.

Q. Can I have visitors when I am admitted for my procedure?
We understand how important the support of family and friends is, so we aim to be flexible with our visiting hours. Please check with the relevant hospital to confirm their specific visitor policy.

Q. I have a severe allergy, who do I need to inform?
Please inform the nurse if you have any allergies including latex when you arrive at your appointment.

Q. I have special dietary requirements/allergies, who do I need to inform?
You can discuss allergies and special requirements with your consultant during your initial consultation.
Our pre-assessment nurse will discuss allergies and special requirements with you during your pre-assessment appointment or pre-assessment telephone assessment before your admission.

Q. Will I have a private room?
Yes, most patients will have a private room. Some of our hospitals have an ambulatory care suite for patients, who need minor procedures without general anaesthetic.

Q. What is the difference between an outpatient, a day case and an inpatient?
If you are looking into treatments, these are some terms that you will come across:
Outpatient – a patient who comes in (attends) for a short consultation – this could also be a test, a minor treatment or a scan.
Day case – a patient who is admitted to the ward for a procedure. This may require some recovery time but patients should be able to go home on the same day. There may be some assessment or preparation before admission.
Inpatient – a patient who stays in the hospital for one or more nights. There may be some assessment or preparation before admission.

Q. What diagnostic scanning and tests are available?
We have a wide range of tests and scans available at our hospitals.

Q. Can I pay for my test or scan?
Yes, you can. Our price will include the cost of the test or scan, and the report. Reporting will be provided by some of the UK’s most qualified Radiologists and Pathologists.

Q. How much do tests and scans cost?
Click here to view the prices of our most popular tests and scans at your chosen Nuffield Health hospital.

Q. How long will I have to wait for a radiology appointment?
This will vary depending on the scan you require and the availability of our consultant radiologists, however we endeavour to book appointments as quickly as possible.

Q. I have had a test/scan completed elsewhere, are you able to obtain my results prior to my outpatient consultation?
Yes, please let us know where and when you had your test or scan taken as soon as possible and our team will do their best to obtain your results ready for your consultant to view.

Q. Does my local hospital have a radiology department?
We have a radiology department in all our hospitals.

Q. How do I book a scan?
To book a scan, you will first need to obtain a referral from a suitable health-care professional. Your health-care professional will either send your referral directly to your chosen Nuffield Health Radiology department, or they may provide you with the referral. If this is the case, you can email your referral to us. Once your referral has been reviewed, a member of the team will contact you via phone call to book a suitable appointment for you.

Q. I have booked a scan; do I need to do anything to prepare?
Some scans do require specific preparation. This will be discussed with you when you book your appointment and will be confirmed in your appointment confirmation. If you have booked a scan and have any questions regarding your preparation instructions, please contact your hospital via phone or email.

Q. How will I receive my scan results?
Once your scan has been completed, our Radiologists will report on your results. The report will be sent to your referring health-care professional within approximately one week of your appointment. Reporting times may vary for specialist examinations, so we recommend checking with the hospital team before you leave. Your health-care professional will be responsible for relaying the results to you.

Q. I would like a copy of my scan report, can this be sent to me directly?
Due to the medical nature of reports, your results need to be interpreted and relayed to you by a health-care professional. For this reason, we are unable to provide reports directly to patients until we have received confirmation that your referring clinician has relayed your results to you.